README.md, before:

# Orchestra Login Portal for ActiveDirectory

[![Alt text](https://i.vimeocdn.com/video/735154945_640.webp)](https://vimeo.com/297400302)

*Short video of logging into Kubernetes and using kubectl using Active Directory*

Orchestra Login Portal provides a login portal for Kubernetes that allows you to authenticate with your Active Directory credentials, use Active Directory groups for RBAC authorizations and provides integration for both `kubectl` and the Kubernetes Dashboard (https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard).  The portal runs inside of Kubernetes, leveraging Kubernetes for scalability, secret management and deployment. 

![Orchestra Login Portal Architecture](imgs/openunison_qs_kubernetes.png)

When a user accesses Kubernetes using Orchestra, they'll access both the login portal and the dashboard through OpenUnison (instead of directly via an ingress).  OpenUnison will inject the user's identity into each request, allowing the dashboard to act on their behalf.  The login portal has no external dependencies outside of Active Directory and Kubernetes.  All objects for session state are stored as CRDs.

# Deployment

## Watch a Video

This 11 minute video shows the entire deployment and user onboarding process

[![Alt text](https://i.vimeocdn.com/video/735306153_640.webp)](https://vimeo.com/297399119)

## What You Need To Start

Prior to deploying Orchestra you will need:

1. Kubernetes 1.10 or higher
2. The Nginx Ingress Controller deployed (https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/)
3. The certificate authority certificate for your Active Directory forest
4. Deploy the dashboard to your cluster

## Create Environments File

Orchestra stores environment specific information, such as host names, passwords, etc, in a properties file that will then be loaded by OpenUnison and merged with its configuration.  This file will be stored in Kubernetes as a secret then accessed by OpenUnison on startup to fill in the `#[]` parameters in `unison.xml` and `myvd.conf`.  For instance the parameter `#[OU_HOST]` in `unison.xml` would have an entry in this file.  Below is an example `input.props` file:

```properties
OU_HOST=k8sou.tremolo.lan
K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST=k8sdb.tremolo.lan
K8S_URL=https://k8s-installer-master.tremolo.lan:6443
AD_BASE_DN=cn=users,dc=ent2k12,dc=domain,dc=com
AD_HOST=192.168.2.75
AD_PORT=636
AD_BIND_DN=cn=Administrator,cn=users,dc=ent2k12,dc=domain,dc=com
AD_BIND_PASSWORD=password
AD_CON_TYPE=ldaps
SRV_DNS=false
OU_CERT_OU=k8s
OU_CERT_O=Tremolo Security
OU_CERT_L=Alexandria
OU_CERT_ST=Virginia
OU_CERT_C=US
unisonKeystorePassword=start123
USE_K8S_CM=true
SESSION_INACTIVITY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=900
MYVD_CONFIG_PATH=WEB-INF/myvd.conf
```

*Detailed Description or Properties*

| Property | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| OU_HOST  | The host name for OpenUnison.  This is what user's will put into their browser to login to Kubernetes |
| K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST | The host name for the dashboard.  This is what users will put into the browser to access to the dashboard. **NOTE:** `OU_HOST` and `K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST` **MUST** share the same DNS suffix. Both `OU_HOST` and `K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST` **MUST** point to OpenUnison |
| K8S_URL | The URL for the Kubernetes API server | 
| AD_BASE_DN | The search base for Active Directory |
| AD_HOST | The host name for a domain controller or VIP.  If using SRV records to determine hosts, this should be the fully qualified domain name of the domain |
| AD_PORT | The port to communicate with Active Directory |
| AD_BIND_DN | The full distinguished name (DN) of a read-only service account for working with Active Directory |
| AD_BIND_PASSWORD | The password for the `AD_BIND_DN` |
| AD_CON_TYPE | `ldaps` for secure, `ldap` for plain text |
| SRV_DNS | If `true`, OpenUnison will lookup domain controllers by the domain's SRV DNS record |
| OU_CERT_OU | The `OU` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_O | The `O` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_L | The `L` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_ST | The `ST` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_C | The `C` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| unisonKeystorePassword | The password for OpenUnison's keystore |
| USE_K8S_CM | Tells the deployment system if you should use k8s' built in certificate manager.  If your distribution doesn't support this (such as Canonical and Rancher), set this to false |
| SESSION_INACTIVITY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS | The number of seconds of inactivity before the session is terminated, also the length of the refresh token's session |
| MYVD_CONFIG_PATH | The path to the MyVD configuration file, unless being customized, use `WEB-INF/myvd.conf` |


## Prepare Deployment

Perform these steps from a location with a working `kubectl` configuration:

1. Create a directory to store secrets, ie `/path/to/secrets`, and put `input.props` (the properties file defined above) in that directory
2. Create a directory for config maps, ie `/apth/to/configmaps` for the Active Directory root certificate and store it there with the name `trusted-adldaps.pem`

## Deployment

Based on where you put the files from `Prepare Deployment`, run the following:

```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TremoloSecurity/kubernetes-artifact-deployment/master/src/main/bash/deploy_openunison.sh | bash -s /path/to/configmaps /path/to/secrets https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenUnison/openunison-k8s-login-activedirectory/master/src/main/yaml/artifact-deployment.yaml
```

The output will look like:

```
namespace/openunison-deploy created
configmap/extracerts created
secret/input created
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/artifact-deployment created
job.batch/artifact-deployment created
NAME                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       Pending   0          0s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       Pending   0         0s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       ContainerCreating   0         0s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   1/1       Running   0         4s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       Completed   0         15s
```

Once you see `Completed`, you can exit the script (`Ctl+C`).  This script creates all of the appropriate objects in Kubernetes, signs certificates and deploys both OpenUnison and the Dashboard.  

## Complete SSO Integration with Kubernetes

Run `kubectl describe configmap api-server-config -n openunison` to get the SSO integration artifacts.  The output will give you both the certificate that needs to be trusted and the API server flags that need to be configured on your API servers.

## First Login

To login, open your browser and go to the host you specified for `OU_HOST` in your `input.props`.  For instance if `OU_HOST` is `k8sou.tremolo.lan` then navigate to https://k8sou.tremolo.lan.  You'll be prompted for your Active Directory username and password.  Once authenticated you'll be able login to the portal and generate your `.kube/config` from the Tokens screen.

## Authorizing Access via RBAC

On first login, if you haven't authorized access to any Kubernetes roles you won't be able to do anything.  There are two approaches you can take:

### Group Driven Membership

If you can populate groups in Active Directory for Kubernetes, you can use those groups for authorization via OpenUnison.  OpenUnison will provide all of a user's groups via the `id_token` supplied to Kubernetes.  The `groups` claim is a list of values, in this case the Distinguished Names of the user's groups.  As an example, I created a group in AD called `k8s_login_ckuster_admins` in the `Users` container of my `ent2k12.domain.com` domain.  This means the group will be `CN=k8s_login_ckuster_admins,CN=Users,DC=ent2k12,DC=domain,DC=com` (you can get the exact name of the group from the `distinguishedName` attribute of the group in Active Directory).  To authorize members of this group to be cluster administrators, we create a `ClusterRoleBinding`:

```
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: activedirectory-cluster-admins
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: CN=k8s_login_ckuster_admins,CN=Users,DC=ent2k12,DC=domain,DC=com
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-admin
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

### User Driven Membership

If you are not able to create groups in Active Directory, you can directly add users to role bindings.  Kubernetes requires that you identify openid connect users with the prefix of the url of the identity provider.  So if your `OU_HOST` is `k8sou.tremolo.lan` and your user's login is `mmosley` your username to Kubernetes would be `https://k8sou.tremolo.lan/auth/idp/k8sIdp#mmosley`.  To create a cluster role binding to give cluster-admin access to a specific user:

```
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: activedirectory-cluster-admins
subjects:
- kind: User
  name: https://k8sou.tremolo.lan/auth/idp/k8sIdp#mmosley
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-admin
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

*NOTE*: There are multiple reasons this is a bad idea:
1.  Hard to audit - There is no easy way to say "what role bindings is `mmosley` a member of?
2.  Difficult to remove access - Same reason as #1, you need to figure out every role binding a user is a member of to remove
3.  Easy to get wrong - If you mistype a user's login id Kubernetes won't tell you

If you can't use Active Directory groups, take a look at the OpenUnison Identity Manager for Kubernetes - https://github.com/TremoloSecurity/openunison-qs-kubernetes/tree/activedirectory.  This tool adds on to the login capabilities with the ability to manage access to the cluster and namespaces, along with providing a self service way for users to request new namespaces and manage access.

# Whats next?

Now you can begin mapping OpenUnison's capabilities to your business and compliance needs.  For instance you can add multi-factor authentication with TOTP or U2F, Create privileged workflows for onboarding, scheduled workflows that will deprovision users, etc.

# Customizing Directory Connections

If you're running multiple directories, or need to connect to a generic LDAP directory isntead of Active Directory you can provide a custom MyVirtualDirectory configuration file without a re-build of your containers.  Start with the myvd.conf file at https://github.com/OpenUnison/openunison-k8s-login-activedirectory/blob/master/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/myvd.conf.  ONLY edit the section that begins with `server.activedirectory`.  As an example, the below configuration works against a generic LDAPv3 directory with the `VirtualMemberOf` insert configured to create a `memeberOf` attribute on users so we can supply groups to Kubernetes:

```
#Global AuthMechConfig
server.globalChain=accesslog

server.globalChain.accesslog.className=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.myvd.log.AccessLog

server.nameSpaces=rootdse,myvdroot,shadowUsers,activedirectory
server.rootdse.chain=dse
server.rootdse.nameSpace=
server.rootdse.weight=0
server.rootdse.dse.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.RootDSE
server.rootdse.dse.config.namingContexts=o=Tremolo
server.myvdroot.chain=root
server.myvdroot.nameSpace=o=Tremolo
server.myvdroot.weight=0
server.myvdroot.root.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.RootObject

server.shadowUsers.chain=debug,mapping,api
server.shadowUsers.nameSpace=ou=shadow,o=Tremolo
server.shadowUsers.weight=0
server.shadowUsers.enabled=true
server.shadowUsers.debug.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.DumpTransaction
server.shadowUsers.debug.config.logLevel=info
server.shadowUsers.debug.config.label=k8s
server.shadowUsers.mapping.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.AttributeMapper
server.shadowUsers.mapping.config.mapping=mail=email,givenName=first_name,sn=last_name
server.shadowUsers.api.className=com.tremolosecurity.myvd.K8sCrdInsert
server.shadowUsers.api.config.nameSpace=openunison
server.shadowUsers.api.config.k8sTargetName=k8s

server.activedirectory.chain=objectguid2text,dnmapper,memberof,objmap,membertrans,ldap
server.activedirectory.nameSpace=ou=activedirectory,o=Data
server.activedirectory.weight=0
server.activedirectory.enabled=true
server.activedirectory.objectguid2text.className=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.myvd.inserts.util.UUIDtoText
server.activedirectory.objectguid2text.config.attributeName=objectGUID
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.DNAttributeMapper
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.dnAttribs=member,owner,member,distinguishedName,manager
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.localBase=ou=activedirectory,o=Data
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.urlAttribs=
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.remoteBase=#[AD_BASE_DN]
server.activedirectory.memberof.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.VirtualMemberOf
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.searchBase=ou=activedirectory,o=Data
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.applyToObjectClass=inetOrgPerson
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.attributeName=memberOf
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.searchObjectClass=groupOfNames
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.searchAttribute=member
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.replace=false
server.activedirectory.objmap.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.AttributeValueMapper
server.activedirectory.objmap.config.mapping=objectClass.inetOrgPerson=inetOrgPerson,objectClass.groupofnames=groupOfNames
server.activedirectory.membertrans.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.AttributeMapper
server.activedirectory.membertrans.config.mapping=member=member,uid=uid
server.activedirectory.ldap.className=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.myvd.inserts.ad.ADLdapInsert
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.host=#[AD_HOST]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.port=#[AD_PORT]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.remoteBase=#[AD_BASE_DN]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.proxyDN=#[AD_BIND_DN]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.proxyPass=#[AD_BIND_PASSWORD]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.useSrvDNS=#[SRV_DNS]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.ignoreRefs=true
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.passBindOnly=true
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maxIdle=90000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maxMillis=90000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maxStaleTimeMillis=90000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.minimumConnections=10
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maximumConnections=10
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.usePaging=false
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.pageSize=0
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.heartbeatIntervalMillis=60000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.type=#[AD_CON_TYPE]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.sslSocketFactory=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.ssl.TremoloSSLSocketFactory
```

Once OpenUnison is deployed, create a directory with your `myvd.conf` file in it and deploy it as a `ConfigMap`:

```
kubectl create configmap myvd --from-file . -n openunison
```

Next edit the `openunison` deployment to mount the `ConfigMap` to `/etc/myvd` and change the environment variable `MYVD_CONFIG_PATH` to `/etc/myvd/myvd.conf`.  Once the OpenUnison pods have been recreated, you can login with your LDAP uid (as opposed to an Active Directory samAccountName).

# Updating Secrets and Certificates

In order to change the secrets or update certificate store:

Download the contents of `openunison-secrets` in the `openunison` namespace into an empty directory

```
kubectl get  secret openunison-secrets -o json  -n openunison | python /path/to/openunison-k8s-idm-oidc/src/main/python/download_secrets.py
```

`download_secrets.py` is a utility script for pulling the files out of secrets and config maps.  Next, make your changes.  You can't apply over an existing secret, so next delete the current secret:

```
kubectl delete secret openunison-secrets -n openunison
```

Finally, create the secret from the directory where you downloaded the secrets:

```
kubectl create secret generic openunison-secrets --from-file=. -n openunison
```

Redeploy Orchestra to pick up the changes.  The easiest way is to update an environment variable in the `openunison` deployment

Commit message:

update readme to include kube-api oidc config

README.md, after:

# Orchestra Login Portal for ActiveDirectory

[![Alt text](https://i.vimeocdn.com/video/735154945_640.webp)](https://vimeo.com/297400302)

*Short video of logging into Kubernetes and using kubectl using Active Directory*

Orchestra Login Portal provides a login portal for Kubernetes that allows you to authenticate with your Active Directory credentials, use Active Directory groups for RBAC authorizations and provides integration for both `kubectl` and the Kubernetes Dashboard (https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard).  The portal runs inside of Kubernetes, leveraging Kubernetes for scalability, secret management and deployment. 

![Orchestra Login Portal Architecture](imgs/openunison_qs_kubernetes.png)

When a user accesses Kubernetes using Orchestra, they'll access both the login portal and the dashboard through OpenUnison (instead of directly via an ingress).  OpenUnison will inject the user's identity into each request, allowing the dashboard to act on their behalf.  The login portal has no external dependencies outside of Active Directory and Kubernetes.  All objects for session state are stored as CRDs.

# Deployment

## Watch a Video

This 11 minute video shows the entire deployment and user onboarding process

[![Alt text](https://i.vimeocdn.com/video/735306153_640.webp)](https://vimeo.com/297399119)

## What You Need To Start

Prior to deploying Orchestra you will need:

1. Kubernetes 1.10 or higher
2. The Nginx Ingress Controller deployed (https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/)
3. The certificate authority certificate for your Active Directory forest
4. Deploy the dashboard to your cluster

## Create Environments File

Orchestra stores environment specific information, such as host names, passwords, etc, in a properties file that will then be loaded by OpenUnison and merged with its configuration.  This file will be stored in Kubernetes as a secret then accessed by OpenUnison on startup to fill in the `#[]` parameters in `unison.xml` and `myvd.conf`.  For instance the parameter `#[OU_HOST]` in `unison.xml` would have an entry in this file.  Below is an example `input.props` file:

```properties
OU_HOST=k8sou.tremolo.lan
K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST=k8sdb.tremolo.lan
K8S_URL=https://k8s-installer-master.tremolo.lan:6443
AD_BASE_DN=cn=users,dc=ent2k12,dc=domain,dc=com
AD_HOST=192.168.2.75
AD_PORT=636
AD_BIND_DN=cn=Administrator,cn=users,dc=ent2k12,dc=domain,dc=com
AD_BIND_PASSWORD=password
AD_CON_TYPE=ldaps
SRV_DNS=false
OU_CERT_OU=k8s
OU_CERT_O=Tremolo Security
OU_CERT_L=Alexandria
OU_CERT_ST=Virginia
OU_CERT_C=US
unisonKeystorePassword=start123
USE_K8S_CM=true
SESSION_INACTIVITY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS=900
MYVD_CONFIG_PATH=WEB-INF/myvd.conf
```

*Detailed Description or Properties*

| Property | Description |
| -------- | ----------- |
| OU_HOST  | The host name for OpenUnison.  This is what user's will put into their browser to login to Kubernetes |
| K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST | The host name for the dashboard.  This is what users will put into the browser to access to the dashboard. **NOTE:** `OU_HOST` and `K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST` **MUST** share the same DNS suffix. Both `OU_HOST` and `K8S_DASHBOARD_HOST` **MUST** point to OpenUnison |
| K8S_URL | The URL for the Kubernetes API server | 
| AD_BASE_DN | The search base for Active Directory |
| AD_HOST | The host name for a domain controller or VIP.  If using SRV records to determine hosts, this should be the fully qualified domain name of the domain |
| AD_PORT | The port to communicate with Active Directory |
| AD_BIND_DN | The full distinguished name (DN) of a read-only service account for working with Active Directory |
| AD_BIND_PASSWORD | The password for the `AD_BIND_DN` |
| AD_CON_TYPE | `ldaps` for secure, `ldap` for plain text |
| SRV_DNS | If `true`, OpenUnison will lookup domain controllers by the domain's SRV DNS record |
| OU_CERT_OU | The `OU` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_O | The `O` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_L | The `L` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_ST | The `ST` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| OU_CERT_C | The `C` attribute for the forward facing certificate |
| unisonKeystorePassword | The password for OpenUnison's keystore |
| USE_K8S_CM | Tells the deployment system if you should use k8s' built in certificate manager.  If your distribution doesn't support this (such as Canonical and Rancher), set this to false |
| SESSION_INACTIVITY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS | The number of seconds of inactivity before the session is terminated, also the length of the refresh token's session |
| MYVD_CONFIG_PATH | The path to the MyVD configuration file, unless being customized, use `WEB-INF/myvd.conf` |


## Prepare Deployment

Perform these steps from a location with a working `kubectl` configuration:

1. Create a directory to store secrets, ie `/path/to/secrets`, and put `input.props` (the properties file defined above) in that directory
2. Create a directory for config maps, ie `/apth/to/configmaps` for the Active Directory root certificate and store it there with the name `trusted-adldaps.pem`

## Deployment

Based on where you put the files from `Prepare Deployment`, run the following:

```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TremoloSecurity/kubernetes-artifact-deployment/master/src/main/bash/deploy_openunison.sh | bash -s /path/to/configmaps /path/to/secrets https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OpenUnison/openunison-k8s-login-activedirectory/master/src/main/yaml/artifact-deployment.yaml
```

The output will look like:

```
namespace/openunison-deploy created
configmap/extracerts created
secret/input created
clusterrolebinding.rbac.authorization.k8s.io/artifact-deployment created
job.batch/artifact-deployment created
NAME                        READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       Pending   0          0s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       Pending   0         0s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       ContainerCreating   0         0s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   1/1       Running   0         4s
artifact-deployment-jzmnr   0/1       Completed   0         15s
```

Once you see `Completed`, you can exit the script (`Ctl+C`).  This script creates all of the appropriate objects in Kubernetes, signs certificates and deploys both OpenUnison and the Dashboard.  

## Complete SSO Integration with Kubernetes

Run `kubectl describe configmap api-server-config -n openunison` to get the SSO integration artifacts.  The output will give you both the certificate that needs to be trusted and the API server flags that need to be configured on your API servers.

## First Login

To login, open your browser and go to the host you specified for `OU_HOST` in your `input.props`.  For instance if `OU_HOST` is `k8sou.tremolo.lan` then navigate to https://k8sou.tremolo.lan.  You'll be prompted for your Active Directory username and password.  Once authenticated you'll be able login to the portal and generate your `.kube/config` from the Tokens screen.

## Add oidc parameteres to kube-apiserver

On all master nodes you need to update the kube-apiserver configuration.  First create a new file with the contents of your TLS certificate for your OU_HOST (e.g. k8sou.tremolo.lan) ```/etc/kubernetes/pki/ou-ca.pem```

Then add the following parameters to ```/etc/kubernetes/manifests/kube-apiserver.yaml```.  The kube-apiservers will automatically restart.

```
    - --oidc-issuer-url=https://k8sou.tremolo.lan/auth/idp/k8sIdp
    - --oidc-client-id=kubernetes
    - --oidc-ca-file=/etc/kubernetes/pki/ou-ca.pem
    - --oidc-username-claim=sub
    - --oidc-groups-claim=groups
```


## Authorizing Access via RBAC

On first login, if you haven't authorized access to any Kubernetes roles you won't be able to do anything.  There are two approaches you can take:

### Group Driven Membership

If you can populate groups in Active Directory for Kubernetes, you can use those groups for authorization via OpenUnison.  OpenUnison will provide all of a user's groups via the `id_token` supplied to Kubernetes.  The `groups` claim is a list of values, in this case the Distinguished Names of the user's groups.  As an example, I created a group in AD called `k8s_login_ckuster_admins` in the `Users` container of my `ent2k12.domain.com` domain.  This means the group will be `CN=k8s_login_ckuster_admins,CN=Users,DC=ent2k12,DC=domain,DC=com` (you can get the exact name of the group from the `distinguishedName` attribute of the group in Active Directory).  To authorize members of this group to be cluster administrators, we create a `ClusterRoleBinding`:

```
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: activedirectory-cluster-admins
subjects:
- kind: Group
  name: CN=k8s_login_ckuster_admins,CN=Users,DC=ent2k12,DC=domain,DC=com
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-admin
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

### User Driven Membership

If you are not able to create groups in Active Directory, you can directly add users to role bindings.  Kubernetes requires that you identify openid connect users with the prefix of the url of the identity provider.  So if your `OU_HOST` is `k8sou.tremolo.lan` and your user's login is `mmosley` your username to Kubernetes would be `https://k8sou.tremolo.lan/auth/idp/k8sIdp#mmosley`.  To create a cluster role binding to give cluster-admin access to a specific user:

```
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: activedirectory-cluster-admins
subjects:
- kind: User
  name: https://k8sou.tremolo.lan/auth/idp/k8sIdp#mmosley
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: cluster-admin
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

*NOTE*: There are multiple reasons this is a bad idea:
1.  Hard to audit - There is no easy way to say "what role bindings is `mmosley` a member of?
2.  Difficult to remove access - Same reason as #1, you need to figure out every role binding a user is a member of to remove
3.  Easy to get wrong - If you mistype a user's login id Kubernetes won't tell you

If you can't use Active Directory groups, take a look at the OpenUnison Identity Manager for Kubernetes - https://github.com/TremoloSecurity/openunison-qs-kubernetes/tree/activedirectory.  This tool adds on to the login capabilities with the ability to manage access to the cluster and namespaces, along with providing a self service way for users to request new namespaces and manage access.

# Whats next?

Now you can begin mapping OpenUnison's capabilities to your business and compliance needs.  For instance you can add multi-factor authentication with TOTP or U2F, Create privileged workflows for onboarding, scheduled workflows that will deprovision users, etc.

# Customizing Directory Connections

If you're running multiple directories, or need to connect to a generic LDAP directory isntead of Active Directory you can provide a custom MyVirtualDirectory configuration file without a re-build of your containers.  Start with the myvd.conf file at https://github.com/OpenUnison/openunison-k8s-login-activedirectory/blob/master/src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/myvd.conf.  ONLY edit the section that begins with `server.activedirectory`.  As an example, the below configuration works against a generic LDAPv3 directory with the `VirtualMemberOf` insert configured to create a `memeberOf` attribute on users so we can supply groups to Kubernetes:

```
#Global AuthMechConfig
server.globalChain=accesslog

server.globalChain.accesslog.className=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.myvd.log.AccessLog

server.nameSpaces=rootdse,myvdroot,shadowUsers,activedirectory
server.rootdse.chain=dse
server.rootdse.nameSpace=
server.rootdse.weight=0
server.rootdse.dse.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.RootDSE
server.rootdse.dse.config.namingContexts=o=Tremolo
server.myvdroot.chain=root
server.myvdroot.nameSpace=o=Tremolo
server.myvdroot.weight=0
server.myvdroot.root.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.RootObject

server.shadowUsers.chain=debug,mapping,api
server.shadowUsers.nameSpace=ou=shadow,o=Tremolo
server.shadowUsers.weight=0
server.shadowUsers.enabled=true
server.shadowUsers.debug.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.DumpTransaction
server.shadowUsers.debug.config.logLevel=info
server.shadowUsers.debug.config.label=k8s
server.shadowUsers.mapping.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.AttributeMapper
server.shadowUsers.mapping.config.mapping=mail=email,givenName=first_name,sn=last_name
server.shadowUsers.api.className=com.tremolosecurity.myvd.K8sCrdInsert
server.shadowUsers.api.config.nameSpace=openunison
server.shadowUsers.api.config.k8sTargetName=k8s

server.activedirectory.chain=objectguid2text,dnmapper,memberof,objmap,membertrans,ldap
server.activedirectory.nameSpace=ou=activedirectory,o=Data
server.activedirectory.weight=0
server.activedirectory.enabled=true
server.activedirectory.objectguid2text.className=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.myvd.inserts.util.UUIDtoText
server.activedirectory.objectguid2text.config.attributeName=objectGUID
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.DNAttributeMapper
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.dnAttribs=member,owner,member,distinguishedName,manager
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.localBase=ou=activedirectory,o=Data
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.urlAttribs=
server.activedirectory.dnmapper.config.remoteBase=#[AD_BASE_DN]
server.activedirectory.memberof.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.VirtualMemberOf
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.searchBase=ou=activedirectory,o=Data
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.applyToObjectClass=inetOrgPerson
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.attributeName=memberOf
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.searchObjectClass=groupOfNames
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.searchAttribute=member
server.activedirectory.memberof.config.replace=false
server.activedirectory.objmap.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.AttributeValueMapper
server.activedirectory.objmap.config.mapping=objectClass.inetOrgPerson=inetOrgPerson,objectClass.groupofnames=groupOfNames
server.activedirectory.membertrans.className=net.sourceforge.myvd.inserts.mapping.AttributeMapper
server.activedirectory.membertrans.config.mapping=member=member,uid=uid
server.activedirectory.ldap.className=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.myvd.inserts.ad.ADLdapInsert
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.host=#[AD_HOST]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.port=#[AD_PORT]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.remoteBase=#[AD_BASE_DN]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.proxyDN=#[AD_BIND_DN]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.proxyPass=#[AD_BIND_PASSWORD]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.useSrvDNS=#[SRV_DNS]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.ignoreRefs=true
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.passBindOnly=true
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maxIdle=90000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maxMillis=90000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maxStaleTimeMillis=90000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.minimumConnections=10
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.maximumConnections=10
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.usePaging=false
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.pageSize=0
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.heartbeatIntervalMillis=60000
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.type=#[AD_CON_TYPE]
server.activedirectory.ldap.config.sslSocketFactory=com.tremolosecurity.proxy.ssl.TremoloSSLSocketFactory
```

Once OpenUnison is deployed, create a directory with your `myvd.conf` file in it and deploy it as a `ConfigMap`:

```
kubectl create configmap myvd --from-file . -n openunison
```

Next edit the `openunison` deployment to mount the `ConfigMap` to `/etc/myvd` and change the environment variable `MYVD_CONFIG_PATH` to `/etc/myvd/myvd.conf`.  Once the OpenUnison pods have been recreated, you can login with your LDAP uid (as opposed to an Active Directory samAccountName).

# Updating Secrets and Certificates

In order to change the secrets or update certificate store:

Download the contents of `openunison-secrets` in the `openunison` namespace into an empty directory

```
kubectl get  secret openunison-secrets -o json  -n openunison | python /path/to/openunison-k8s-idm-oidc/src/main/python/download_secrets.py
```

`download_secrets.py` is a utility script for pulling the files out of secrets and config maps.  Next, make your changes.  You can't apply over an existing secret, so next delete the current secret:

```
kubectl delete secret openunison-secrets -n openunison
```

Finally, create the secret from the directory where you downloaded the secrets:

```
kubectl create secret generic openunison-secrets --from-file=. -n openunison
```

Redeploy Orchestra to pick up the changes.  The easiest way is to update an environment variable in the `openunison` deployment
